In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
Cats have 3 eyelids.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
